# Reproduce-INF602-NLP
The number of people using social media platforms continues to rise, with several networking sites boasting hundreds of millions of active members every single month. The manual approach of policing user material is difficult to implement in any administrative setting. On the internet, you may choose to communicate with others using any one of several hundred different languages.
Urdu is the 10th-most widely spoken language in the world, with an estimated 230 million total speakers, primarily in Pakistan and India. We propose using machine learning algorithms to identify hate speech in Urdu language. We utilized the previously established dataset and manually produced instances to make this inquiry practicable on a balanced dataset. Abusive and offensive words are categorized using Sklearn's standard models. 
We utilized CNN network and made it more accurate to forecast the outcomes properly and train the model first on normal dataset and then embedding in layers of deep learning model to increase hyperparameters like precision, f1 recalls, and accuracy. 
MLP (multi-layer perceptron) with paraphrase Multilanguage v1 encoding was the best model for abusive categorization and nu-SVM for threatening language dataset. Our approach improved model accuracy by embedding the same hate speech terms in the dataset. 
Our testing setup showed that support vector machine can identify Urdu hate with 81.87% accuracy. Training time, testing time, and accuracy helped us choose the best model for Urdu hate detection on social media. The training and testing timeframes of different approaches have also been compared
